
pbrt Release 1.02 (25 April 2005)

-------------
Installation:
-------------

The pbrtsrc-1.02.tar.gz and pbrtsrc-1.02.zip files include updated source
code to the pbrt rendering system described in "Physically Based Rendering:
From Theory to Implementation" by Matt Pharr and Greg Humphreys.  The zip
file includes project files and libraries for bulding the system under
Windows and the tar.gz file includes make files and libraries for building
under Linux and OSX.  

See page 1017 of the PBR book for informaton about building and installing
under Windows and page 1018 for information about building and installing
under Linux.  See the pbrt.org website for more information about pbrt.

See the accompanying file license.txt for information about the license
agreement under which this software is provided.  Your use of this software
constitutes acceptance of this license.

----------
Bug Fixes: 
----------

The following bugs from the pbrt bug database (http://pbrt.org/bugtracker)
are fixed in this release.

- Bug #2: Fixed errors in windows project files: film.cpp was missing
from core project, buffer security turned off for release builds, had
project file to build bumpy.cpp (which doesn't exist)
file to build bumpy.cpp was missing.

- Bug #3: Added checks to camera and light constructors to detect
non-uniform scale transformations and warn about them, if present.
(Cameras and lights don't work properly if their transformations have
non-uniform scales)

- Bug #8: Add checks in Blinn and Anisotropic microfacet distribution
constructors to detect excessively large and NaN exponent values.

- Bug #10: Added casts in PhotonIntegrator to eliminate compiler warnings
about casts from doubles.

- Bug #12: Fixed pbrtTransform() to set the current transformation matrix
from the given matrix; previously, it was multiplying by the given matrix,
just like pbrtConcatTransform()

- Bug #13: Input file parser doesn't detect errors like:
 "float foo" "some-texture-name".  (Where "float" should have been
"texture").  This is particularly bad since the TT scene on the CD has this
error in it.  Fixed the parser to detect this case and treat it as a
texture as intended by the user.

- Bug #14: Fixed InfiniteAreaLight::Sample_L() to no longer potentially
divide by an uninitialized variable depending on how the compiler generated
code.  (Also fixed AreaLight in a similar manner).

- Bug #15: Fixed SphericalMapping2D::Map() method to compute *dtdy
correctly (it would incorrectly assign to *dtdx in the else clause of the
if test.)

- Bug #17: Added COREDLL to declaration of ComputeStep1dCDF() function so
that it's available to plugins under windows.

- Bug #18: Fixed triangle area calculation in test for degenerate uv
mapping on triangles in TriangleMesh's CreateShape() function.

- Bug #20: Avoid possible degenerate case when computing dPdu and dPdv on
spheres.

- Bug #21: Fix Assert() macro to handle expressions using modulus '%'
operator.

- Bug #25: Fix error in implementation of Anisotropic::sampleFirstQuadrant()

- Bug #26: dNdu and dNdv in DifferentialGeometry should be Normals (and in
particular should transform like Normals), not Vectors.

- Bug #27: Fix AggregateVolume::p() method to correctly handle the case of
multiple overlapping volumes.

- Bug #28: Fixed Scene::WorldBound() to include the extents of any
VolumeRegions in the scene as well as the scene geometry.

- Bug #29: Fixed the Monte Carlo-based implementation of BxDF::rho() to no
longer incorrectly divide by M_PI.

- Bug #30: Fixed the computation of blinn_pdf value in Blinn microfacet
distribution to divide by exponent+2, not exponent+1.

- Bug #32: Use $(MAKE), not "make" in clean rule in makefile.

- Bug #33: Fixed implementation of Anisotropic::D() and anisotropic_pdf
calculations to match derivation.

- Bug #36: Fixed possible dereference of NULL pointer when per-vertex
tangents were provided for triangle mesh without per-vertex normals.

- Bug #37: Fixed LookAt implementation so that it actually will always
generate a rigid body transformation.

-------------------------------------
Additional fixes without bug numbers:
-------------------------------------

Turned off buffer security checks on windows builds; this speeds things up
a bunch!

Added missing COREDLL declarations to: Spectrum::Exp(),
RejectionSampleDisk(), Rotate[XYZ](), Rotate(), LookAt(), EstimateDirect(),
SampleStep1d(), ComputeStep1dCDF(), MemoryArena class, GeometricPrimitive
class, and InstancePrimitive class.

Added missing const qualifier to Point::operator+ method.

Fixed BBox::BoundingSphere() method to handle degenerate bounding boxes
gracefully.

Fixed typo in MipMap down-filtering of previous mip-map level.

Fixed DirectLighting integrator so that area light sources visible from
specular reflection or refraction would still be visible.

Fixed AreaLight::Sample_L() method to pass the sampled point to
AreaLight::L() to compute outgoing radiance, not the point at which
lighting is being computed.

Fixed memory leaks in LDSampler by freeing memory in destructor.

Fix TriangleMesh computation of bitangent vectors in cases where tangent
vectors are provided explicitly.

Fixed case in ImageFilm that could lead to images with zero pixels in one
dimension when a small crop window was given.

Added 2005 to copyright notices.

Bumped version number to 1.02.

